java-web/readme.md, before:

## Become a Java Web Developer 

Notes are mainly from the course [Become a Java Web Developer](https://www.udacity.com/course/java-developer-nanodegree--nd035) on the Udacity platform and a minor part from articles I read while learning the course.

1. [Spring in Visual Studio Code](./Spring-in-VSCode.md)
2. [Java EE Overview](./JavaEE8.md)

#### Spring Boot Basics

1. [Intro to Spring Boot](./spring-boot/Intro-to-Spring-Boot.md)
2. [Web Development in Java](./spring-boot/Web-Dev-in-Java.md)
3. [Spring Boot Basics for Web Development](./spring-boot/Spring-Boot-Basics-for-Web-Dev.md)
4. [Spring MVC and Thymeleaf](./spring-boot/Spring-MVC-and-Thymeleaf.md)
5. [Data Persistence and Security](./spring-boot/Data-Persistence-and-Security.md)
6. [The Final Project of the Course](https://github.com/rdavdin/CloudStorage)

#### Web Services and APIs

1. [Overview](./web-services-and-apis/overview.md)
2. [Rest APIs](./web-services-and-apis/rest-apis.md)
3. [GraphQL APIs](./web-services-and-apis/graphgl-apis.md)
4. [Microservices](./web-services-and-apis/microservices.md)
5. [Security](./web-services-and-apis/security.md)
6. [Consume REST](./web-services-and-apis/consuming-soap-rest.md)
7. [Documentation](./web-services-and-apis/documentation.md)
8. [Unit & Integration Tests](./web-services-and-apis/unit-integration-tests.md)

#### Data Stores and Persistance

[An example demo all features of this course](https://github.com/rdavdin/datastore_persistence.git)

1. [Data in Multitier Architecture](./data-stores-and-persistence/data-in-multitier-architecture.md)
2. [Java Persistence API (JPA)](./data-stores-and-persistence/java-persistence-api-jpa.md)
3. [Connecting to Data Sources](./data-stores-and-persistence/Connecting-2-data-sources.md)
4. [Project: Pet Scheduler](https://github.com/rdavdin/pet-scheduler)

Commit message:

add lesson authentication and authorization

java-web/readme.md, after:

## Become a Java Web Developer 

Notes are mainly from the course [Java Web Developer Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/java-developer-nanodegree--nd035) on the **Udacity** platform and a minor part from articles I read while learning the course.

1. [Spring in Visual Studio Code](./Spring-in-VSCode.md)
2. [Java EE Overview](./JavaEE8.md)

#### Course 1: Spring Boot Basics

1. [Intro to Spring Boot](./spring-boot/Intro-to-Spring-Boot.md)
2. [Web Development in Java](./spring-boot/Web-Dev-in-Java.md)
3. [Spring Boot Basics for Web Development](./spring-boot/Spring-Boot-Basics-for-Web-Dev.md)
4. [Spring MVC and Thymeleaf](./spring-boot/Spring-MVC-and-Thymeleaf.md)
5. [Data Persistence and Security](./spring-boot/Data-Persistence-and-Security.md)
6. **Project:** [CloudStorage](https://github.com/rdavdin/CloudStorage)

#### Course 2: Web Services and APIs

1. [Overview](./web-services-and-apis/overview.md)
2. [Rest APIs](./web-services-and-apis/rest-apis.md)
3. [GraphQL APIs](./web-services-and-apis/graphgl-apis.md)
4. [Microservices](./web-services-and-apis/microservices.md)
5. [Security](./web-services-and-apis/security.md)
6. [Consume REST](./web-services-and-apis/consuming-soap-rest.md)
7. [Documentation](./web-services-and-apis/documentation.md)
8. [Unit & Integration Tests](./web-services-and-apis/unit-integration-tests.md)

#### Course 3: Data Stores and Persistance

[An example demo all features of this course](https://github.com/rdavdin/datastore_persistence.git)

1. [Data in Multitier Architecture](./data-stores-and-persistence/data-in-multitier-architecture.md)
2. [Java Persistence API (JPA)](./data-stores-and-persistence/java-persistence-api-jpa.md)
3. [Connecting to Data Sources](./data-stores-and-persistence/Connecting-2-data-sources.md)
4. **Project:** [Pet Scheduler](https://github.com/rdavdin/pet-scheduler)

#### Course 4: Security and DevOps

1. [Authentication and Authorization](./security-and-devops/authentication-authorization.md)
### Further Reading
1. [Inversion of Control Containers and Dependency Injection pattern](https://www.martinfowler.com/articles/injection.html)

#### Backup some links to read later

[JPA Join Types](https://www.baeldung.com/jpa-join-types)
[Spring Data JPA - Reference Documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/jpa/docs/current/reference/html/#preface)

[Jackson JSON Tutorial](https://www.baeldung.com/jackson)
[Jackson – Bidirectional Relationships](https://www.baeldung.com/jackson-bidirectional-relationships-and-infinite-recursion)


[How to synchronize bidirectional entity associations with JPA and Hibernate](https://vladmihalcea.com/jpa-hibernate-synchronize-bidirectional-entity-associations/)
[The best way to use JPA bidirectional sync methods](https://vladmihalcea.com/jpa-bidirectional-sync-methods/)
[Hibernate Best Practices](https://thorben-janssen.com/hibernate-best-practices/)

[Common Application Properties](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/application-properties.html#appendix.application-properties.core)
